[Music]
welcome to uncommon knowledge I'm Peter
Robinson Heather McDonald is a fellow at
the Manhattan Institute and an editor of
city journal she holds a bachelor's
degree from Yale a master's degree from
Cambridge and a law degree from Stanford
Heather is the author of a number of
books including the best-selling volume
the war on cops her newest book the
diversity delusion how race and gender
pandering corrupt the university and
undermine our culture Heather welcome
thank you Peter it's an honor
Heather 2015 at your alma mater Yale
University here is the sequence of
events the administration sends an email
suggesting that the students use caution
in choosing their Halloween costumes so
as not to offend other students one
lecturer at Yale a woman called Erica
Christakis sends an email saying that
maybe students ought to value the
importance of free speech and perhaps
push back against the idea that
administrators tell them what Halloween
costumes to wear her husband Nicholas
Christakis who by the way is a very
accomplished physician and sociologist
sends an email supporting his wife's
position it happens that he's the master
of one of the Yale Colleges silliman
College and then this is what happens in
the courtyard of silliman College the
exception is because other people have
rights to
your jobs to create a place of comfort
and film for the students some prison
filaments have not done this but sending
out that email goes against your
position Heather there we have 19 and 20
year old students defying the master of
a Yale College and telling him that it's
his job to create a place of comfort and
home what are we to make of this
it's the Cultural Revolution this is the
nadir of American education this sort of
insanity the the narcissistic
victimology of these students thinking
of themselves as oppressed at Yale is
the height of delusion and yet they are
a product of the Yale bureaucracy they
are being encouraged in this sort of
complete hysteria another moment in this
three-hour tirade that was directed at
Nicolas croissant we gave it what was
that 30 seconds gets worse than that the
cursing the disrespect it is utterly
shocking one groups students shouted out
were dying allegedly referring to the
endangered status of Yale's minority
students the kicker is this the
president of Yale a little bit after
this outrageous episode conferred a
racial justice prize on two of the
participants and said that he'd never
been so proud of his student body and
promised and promised if I have this
correct and promise to add 50 million
dollars to the diversity budget of the
university well that was actually a
promise made before but he reiterated it
just to encourage the notion that Yale
was trying to erase discrimination at
Yale and Nicholas Christakis resigned as
master of Suleman College and his wife
resigned as a teacher at Yale can
pletely because they were the then
target of vandalism there was graffiti
on their house the at the graduation
that year students refused to shake his
hand this is completely out of control
Peter and this is Yale is not alone 2017
a little more recent incident Claremont
McKenna where you yourself had been
invited to speak yes I want to come to
the reasons for what on earth is going
on first but first I want to establish
what is going on how bad it is which you
I have to say I thought I had an idea
but the book is shocking students you
were invited to speak at Claremont
McKenna students circulate a statement
that reads I am quoting this because I
couldn't make it up Heather McDonald is
a fascist a white supremacist a war hawk
a transphobic we're folk a classicist
and ignorant of interlocking systems of
domination that produce the lethal
conditions under which oppressed peoples
are forced to live close quote they're
ignorant of grammar but we will leave it
aside because colleges are not supposed
to teach good writing right there simply
supposed to teach victim identity so
what happened to you when you attempted
to speak at Claremont well the students
blockaded the auditorium and didn't let
anybody in I had to be brought in under
police escort through a back alley
through the kitchen a secret passageway
but nobody else could get in because
about 200 students were outside banging
on the plate-glass windows I gave my
talk which was on policing and a
counter-narrative to the black lives
matter nonsense
McCallum knees against the cops to an
empty room but the students were still
outside banging on the plate glass
windows and shouting and at some point
the police decided they couldn't
guarantee my safety any longer and I was
escorted out back through the kitchen
into a waiting squad car Wow and
disciplinary disciplinary measures
against the people kids who broke up who
made that made it impossible effectively
for you to speak to the audience what
happened to the kids well this was
unusual in that there was some
discipline some discipline a suspension
of a semester for a hand maybe two or
three and a full year suspension for
another two or three some of the
students were from the neighboring
Claremont Colleges Claremont itself
claims that these were the only
Claremont students that could identify I
don't know I'm not gonna second-guess
them what I would say though is that the
faculty are basically passive they lie
down before these things they should be
out there they've got the privilege of
tenure to protect their freedom of
speech not that they use that very much
because Peter as you know any any
faculty member on a college campus today
who is anything other than far left is
walking around scared to death the
censorship that's going on is extreme
self-censorship but the faculty are
silent before these outbreaks of
thuggish fascist type of behavior that's
what's happening how did it happen how
did we reach this point let me quote the
diversity delusion Heather a charged set
of ideas now dominates higher education
that human beings are defined by their
skin color sex and sexual preference and
that discrimination based on those
characteristics has been the driving
force in Western civilization these
ideas have remade the university close
quote all right a touch of intellectual
history where did these ideas come from
and how do they become ascendant it's a
very complicated question Peter and I
one can observe the trajectory the final
cause question has to be speculative I
can tell you that when I was in college
in the 70s I was susceptible to a
totally ridiculous set of ideas that
were known as deconstruction and
post-structuralism this was a set of
theories about how language and
literature works unfortunately I was not
critical
five I bought it hook line and sinker in
nineteen years old I was 19 and I was
interested in language nevertheless I
feel very fortunate in that I was
allowed to read when I was a college
student at Yale Chaucer Milton Spencer
and Wordsworth without anyone thinking
to complain about the goat their gonads
and melanin feminism and
multiculturalism didn't hit it came in
the 80s at Stanford where you are now at
Hoover you had the awful moment of the
assault on Stanford's very minimal core
curriculum Jesse Jackson in their
leading chance of hey hey ho ho western
cities got to go and you had this geyser
explosion of the idea that students
should only read books that conform to
their own identity defined as narrowly
and trivially as possible heather
distinguished between the student
radicalism of the 60s and what's taking
place today I find in conversation with
friends there's a little too much
willingness to shrug the shoulders and
say oh well they're just students we've
gotten used to that kind of thing the
place universities are a place for a
certain amount of craziness and that's
been going on for half a century but
this is different well it's the same in
that you know I get I think the problem
with the sixties is one can make a
facially plausible argument that there
was grounds to protest the Vietnam War
I'm agnostic on that I'm not going to
take his side but but that was an idea
that was had some validity so you know a
broken clock is Right twice a day
every so often student protesters are
right usually they're not usually they
don't deserve any attention why should I
listen to student protesters about
capitalism they've never had a job
they've never run a business they know
nothing about what it's like to try and
master a supply chain to try and
understand supply and demand and
customer demands this is this is an act
of entrepreneurial courage that none of
these students have nevertheless in the
60s we all thought the students they are
Tribunal's of truth and from then on we
glorified student protests and so when
it rose up again in the 80s around these
even these narrow narrow ideas of
student victimization which again is
delusional there's no more privileged
human being in history than a college
student because he has a at his
fingertips
the thing that Foust sold his soul for
which is knowledge we still glorify this
and say well if students at Yale and
Princeton say they're victimized by
racism we better do something about it
right the diversity delusion takes up
topic after topic after topic we don't
have time for all of them alas but
here's one affirmative action again I'm
quoting the diversity delusion a growing
this is your argument strong argument
here a growing body of empirical
evidence is undermining the claim that
racial preferences in college benefit
their recipients that is to say
affirmative action may not do any good
at all anyway right explain your
argument absolutely and this to me is
the most powerful argument against
racial preferences I'm frankly fed up
with the traditional Supreme Court
jurisprudence
I think it's incoherent that they should
just junk it the real argument against
racial preferences as far as I'm
concerned is that they harm their
alleged beneficiaries when you put a
student in an academic environment for
which he is not competitively qualified
you're putting him at a disadvantage we
can take this out of the race realm
entirely let's say that MIT decides it
needs to boost its gender parity which
it is doing all the time when it comes
to faculty and admits me with the 650 on
my math SATs on an 800 point scale
everybody else at MIT however has scored
800 s they've gotten a perfect score on
their math SATs what's gonna happen to
me my first year when I have not aced
advanced G is a pretty good score but
you're going to feel strips a standard
deviation away and I am going to
struggle I am NOT going to be able to
keep up in those classes and I faced two
choices I can either say I was admitted
to a
for which I was not prepared or I'm in a
rape culture and I'm surrounded by
microaggressions and patriarchy and
let's move this back into race now
there's not a single selective college
in the country Peter that is not
employing vast racial preferences to
admit black students because the skills
gap is so great that's what's driving a
lot of this victimology is students are
being brought in they can't compete and
they end up blaming phantom racism for
their intellectual and psychological
difficulties
Heather you discuss again the diversity
delusion you discuss a recent study at
Duke I'm going to quote this there's a
little bit of a setup here but it's
fascinating material quote of incoming
students who reported a major more than
76 percent of black male freshman at
Duke intended to major in the hard
sciences or economics hard material but
more than half of those would be black
science majors switched track they move
from the hard sciences to softer
disciplines humanities for example so
that by senior year only 35 percent of
black males graduated with science or
economics degrees while more than 63
percent of white males did what is the
significance of this well if you believe
what is now the reigning mantra in our
society which is the only good science
is diverse science now I think that's
ridiculous but that's now what's going
on if our goal is to graduate more black
scientists racial preferences work
against that goal if those students
who'd been admitted to Duke the black
students with over a standard deviation
of gap in their entering freshman
credentials had gone instead to North
Carolina University a perfectly
respectable school for heaven's sakes
where they met the qualifications of
their peers they would stand a much
greater chance of graduating in good
standing with a science degree what I
find extraordinary about this entire
discourse about racial preferences those
who justify it from universities is its
rank snobbery and elitism the idea is if
you're a black student you can only see
if you go to the elite schools that
heaven forbid you know in the university
of california the voters in their wisdom
tried to ban prop 209 right racial
preferences the university twisted
itself into knots to try and evade them
and you would have things like the
Chancellor of UC Berkeley saying but
where will we get the leaders of
tomorrow if we don't have racial
preferences implying that anybody who
graduates from University of California
Riverside say or Santa Cruz isn't very
good his life is over if it's so
inhibiting and handicapping for a black
student to go to UC Riverside why should
anybody go why don't we close down all
these second and third tier schools so
everyone can go to Harvard and UC
Berkeley so all right so let me have
seen let me is this an accurate summary
many students we've been discussing
african-americans who are brought in on
the basis of racial preferences do have
a charge to make against their
universities they have been brought into
institutions in which they cannot
succeed with the ease or aplomb of their
white counterparts in order to make the
overwhelmingly white liberals who run
those universities feel good about
themselves material they have actually
been put at a material disadvantage for
the sake of some liberal idiom is that
right or am i if I got it wrong am i
overstating the case no you have stay
have a reasonably angry they have a
reason to be angry well they won't see
it but it is a diabolical system it is
now a completely self-perpetuating it's
a perpetual motion machine of grievance
it's it's it's uncanny the way the
preference regime interacts with the
diversity bureaucracy so that you are
generating a steady supply of students
you know there was these wave of black
lives matter protests in 2015 on college
campuses they issued every college issue
that demands and these were collected
you can still find them on the web what
was very odd when I first started
reading them until I figured out what's
go
on school after school these black
students are saying we need more mental
health resources and you thought really
I mean what's going on there but in fact
they feel very stressed out because
again you hear these complaints about
well nobody chooses us for study groups
this is attributed of course to the
bigotry on the white students the reason
is it's very sad is again you have been
admitted to a school for which you
qualified no one is saying I am NOT
saying Peter that black students showed
it should go to college I'm saying they
should go to college on the same footing
as everybody else with a chance to
compete against their peers but now
we've got this codependency the
symbiotic relationship between the
racial preference so-called
beneficiaries and a diversity
bureaucracy set up to try and combat the
racism that is making them feel
uncomfortable at Duke or at Yale or at
UC Berkeley the campus rapist again the
diversity delusion quote the campus rape
industry central tenet is that one-fifth
to one-quarter of all college girls will
be raped or become the targets of
attempted rape by the end of their
college years no crime much less one as
serious as rape has a victimization rate
remotely approaching 20 or 25 percent
close quote explain it's a complete
fraud Detroit is our most violent city
if you combine all four of the violent
felonies that the FBI collects in its
index crime that's murder rape robbery
and aggravated assault you combine all
of those together you get an annual
violent crime rate of two percent one
quarter to one to 20 percent at one
quarter even over four years is more
than the worst African civil wars
experience in terms of sexual violence
if this were going on you would have
seen a stampede decades ago to get
female
out of these tsunamis of sexual violence
no mother would send her daughter into a
situation of that degree of sexual
predation instead the Stampede Peter as
I'm sure you observe at Stanford every
year is the opposite direction it's
highly sophisticated educated mothers
paying $200 an hour when their daughter
is three years old to try and qualify
her for the most elite preschool in
order to hope that she gets into Harvard
16 years later the the percentage of
females on college campuses grows each
year the the admissions ratios
diminished because so many people want
to get in the whole thing is ridiculous
either if we're supposed to believe in
strong women together and that there's
female solidarity why aren't they
warning each other off of these scenes
of sexual predation instead you can go
to University of Virginia every Saturday
night on Rugby Road the girls are our
walk tripping off to the frat parties
that the sexual the campus rape industry
tells us our virtual rape factories and
yet they go every Saturday night what
gives either girls are stupid and they
are voluntarily walking into these
scenes of predation or it's not going on
again the diversity delusion the default
for premarital sex in the wider society
is now yes rather than no we've had the
sexual revolution the policy of mutual
consent that these bureaucracies on
campus are putting in place maybe
laughably out of touch with reality but
its agenda is serious to rehabilitate
the no as the default position for
premarital sex close quote yep so so
what so the college what we see on the
colleges is a reaction against the
sexual revolution not that the
bureaucracies would ever dream of
putting it anything like that back was
that so exactly I mean I think what's
going on is sexual liberation is having
a nervous breakdown it it turns out that
it made a profoundly incorrect
assessment about the male and
female libidos it thought that the
female libido was ready to go
mano-a-mano with the male libido you
know all normative all normative
restraints taken away and that females
would celebrate a regime of one-night
stand casual sex drunken hookup sex the
way the males do who want to have as
much no-strings-attached sex as possible
they're set up biologically
evolutionarily for that and it turns out
that's not the case there is not an
epidemic of sexual assault and rape on
college campuses there is an epidemic of
regret of feeling taken advantage of of
feeling like well I have some emotional
twinge
after that one-night stand that females
feel they have a different physiological
reaction to sexual intercourse the guys
off they're joking around with his buds
and she's saying well why isn't he
noticing me in class and the campus rape
bureaucracy then gives you a nice way of
repackaging your sense of loss confusion
embarrassment regret it was rape and
before when before sexual liberation did
a number on civilizations eons long
hard-won understanding of the
differences between males and females
the default premarital sex was said at
no right that gave females power over
the male the male had to bargain the
female out of the no default sexual
revolution turned that around the
default is now yes and it's up to the
female to argue her way into a no and
that is tough and women are sick of that
they're sick of it and they just say oh
well it's a lot easier to just say yes
than to have to provide reasons why not
to have sex but the weird thing is you
know the sexual liberation on campuses
began with the demand get the
bureaucrats out of our bedroom we want
to have all the coitus we want
unsupervised now these same
asking the bureaucracy to write 40-page
extremely complicated rules for sex
which is the very realm of the cathodic
and irrational and Heather writes of her
fellow conservatives in the diversity
delusion conservatives display
exasperation at the sex at sex
regulations for taking the fun out of
college sex conservatives get this wrong
in fact taking the fun out of college
sex is the only upside to the whole
sordid situation that's true there's no
downside you know I I get and I agree
that the the campus rape tribunals are
kangaroo courts and males are being
railroaded nevertheless just as a girl
can avoid a hundred percent what has now
characterized as campus rape by not
drinking herself blotto and getting into
bed with the guy she doesn't know and
taking off her clothes
a guy can also almost a hundred percent
avoid being accused falsely of campus
rape by acting with chivalry and as a
gentleman you walk your girlfriend home
at night you kiss her goodnight and you
go home to your own room and you write
her a love poem at 2:00 a.m. there is no
downside if this campus rape hysteria
and the crusade against males results in
a sudden increase in abstinence it's not
as if we're like over regulating
production of math you read this because
it may be my favorite quotation and then
in the entire book which is full of
marvelous writing the solution is not
more complex procedural protections
cobbled over a sordid sexual culture the
solution is to reject that culture
entirely Society has no interest in
preserving the collegiate bacchanal
should college fornication become a rare
event preceded by signing contracts
maybe students would actually do some
studying by the way you there must be
some special award somewhere for the the
most the last unselfconscious use of the
word fornication I'm sure that's gonna
get me a hate crime accusation somehow
Heather last questions affirmative
action the Supreme Court's ruling in the
2003 case Grutter versus Bollinger
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor now long
retired but she wrote
for the majority in that case quote the
court expects that 25 years from now
their use of racial preferences will no
longer be necessary now that we're more
than halfway through that 25 year period
do you see any sign that universities
are backing away from the use of racial
preferences no they're fighting tooth
and nail to preserve this they the the
presidents want to feel noblesse oblige
that but for their racial preferences
you know they wouldn't look out over
there marvelously diverse realm it makes
them feel superior to redneck America
that they believe it's composed
exclusively of deplorable bigots and the
sad fact is is that the driving force
behind all of this which is the academic
skills gap between blacks and whites has
not closed the average black twelfth
grader still reads at the level of the
average white 8th grader that is really
a problem Peter and but the solution is
not preferences in college there's got
to be a cultural revolution in the black
home that puts a priority on education
that we see with Asians there whooping
everybody's asked because they are so
single-mindedly focused on academic
accomplishment actually use that I
didn't write it down but you have in the
book I'll remind you and then you take
us through it the mind experiment the
mental it's a thought experiment rather
give us that thought expect well you
know this is the claim that everything
we see today every racial disparity is
the result of discrimination that's the
lever the left left wing explanation for
all things in the world is structural
inequalities are result of structural
racism the conservative view in my
experience it's more likely to say
behavioral choices personal
responsibilities so I pose this thought
experiment if for 10 years blacks acted
like Asians in all things relevant to
both academic and economic success
starting at a young age forward if if
black children attended school now the
pruin see rate is five times higher for
blacks and for whites attended school
the same rate of Asians studied at the
same rate of Asians did not have
children out of wedlock waited until
they were married before having children
the
did not get involved in gangs crimes
drugs so they look they acted like
Asians in all things
if after ten years of that we still saw
the racial disparities that we do then
it is time to look for a structural
inequality to look for a ubiquitous
racism explanation but right now when
the behavioural disparities are so
glaring and so obvious it is woefully
premature to say that what's going on
here is implicit bias or explicit bias
the diversity delusion on faculty the
professorial is tongue-tied when it
comes to promoting the wonders of its
patrimony these privileged cowards
privileged cowards these privileged
cowards can't even summon the guts to
prescribe the coursework that every
student must complete in order to be
considered educated close quote why not
I can iord faculty member at a major
university even at a even at a small
school is a wonderful way of going
through life and should provide the
grounds should provide an ironclad
guarantee against the kinds of they
should be the most courageous people in
America I know what's going on Peter
maybe you at Dartmouth were wise enough
to structure a good curriculum that made
sure you were educated in the basics but
when I was in college I was at a college
that had one of the best history
departments in the country they those
professors did not have the guts to tell
me you're not getting out of here until
you study history and so I didn't they
the students are the point is college is
to cram as much knowledge into the empty
noggins of these students as possible we
don't know enough to make the proper
curricular choices they must be told
what matters they know no 18 year old
they'll stuff their curriculum with as
much film courses as they possibly can
if given the discretion but they've let
the faculty have lost the career
of saying Western civilization is the
source of liberty of freedom of
extraordinary accomplishment they won't
say that okay again the diversity
delusion quote the American founders
again a longest quotation but it's
wonderful the American founders drew on
an astonishingly wide range of
historical sources they invoke the Greek
city-states the Carolingian dynasty and
the Ottoman Empire in the defense of the
Constitution and they assumed that the
new nation's citizens would themselves
be versed in history and political
philosophy the citizens would know
history ignorance of the intellectual
trajectory that led to the rule of law
and the West's astounding prosperity
puts those achievements at risk close
quote
you are not arguing that the
universities have gone mad and that it's
a terrible waste you were arguing that
the universities have gone mad and it
represents a direct threat to the
continuation of this Republic it
certainly does not only is the ignorance
threatening our ability to understand
how fragile and how precious is civil
peace and a government restrained by
rules you can look it's not just
something in the past every single day
around the world you see abuse of power
something the founders understood this
has to be checked the this concept of
due process of law of individual rights
that is unique it's but now been adopted
but the other thing that really scares
me Peter that we the universities are
pumping into the body politic is this
hateful identity politics the Democratic
primaries you are going to see the
university brought into the political
realm the intersectionality everybody
trying to one-up each other in their
victim category I am so sick of
sentences that begin as a female XYZ or
as a black female XYZ or even better as
a trans black female X Y Z these are all
trivial categories being female is not
an accomplishment and it tells you
nothing about what is important about me
which is what I know what I've
accomplished and what my beliefs are
Heather why doesn't the market work we
began with an incident at Yale your alma
mater as you argue that university is is
as affected by the diversity delusion as
any
what is Yale's acceptance rate five
percent five point two points that is to
say for every place at Yale twenty
students apply Yale's not being made to
suffer no alums are still giving huge
gifts to Yale and to other institutions
I can think of Hillsdale and Grove City
two little colleges in their eighteen
hundred institutions in this country
where's the reaction why isn't the
market for higher education providing
some correction I think sadly because
parents are not so interested in
knowledge for its own sake I wish they
were I think you know this again this is
the greatest privilege they want the
prestige of these schools it turns out
starting with the baby boomer parents
that purport baby boomers purported to
be oh we're so anti materialist for
flower children we're just going to go
to ashrams they were fanatics for
prestige they wanted their kids into the
most exclusive college they could get
them into for bragging rights at the cut
at the cocktail party that their kids
going to Amherst and right now it's hard
to break that monopoly last question two
quotations here both of them from the
diversity delusion one comes from the
great african-american historian and
author w eb Du Bois he lived until the
60s but this is wev Du Bois writing in
1903 I sit with Shakespeare and he wins
his not Shakespeare doesn't care the
color of Dubois skin across the color
line I move arm and arm with Balzac and
do MA
I summon Aristotle and Aurelius and what
soul I will and they come all graciously
with no scorn nor condescension the
other quotation a young student at
Columbia University who is talking about
a music course why did I have to listen
to this Mozart
who is this Mozart this heightened these
superior white men there are no women no
people of color close quote
what does Heather McDonald have to say
to that young woman at Columbia well my
heart is broken by both quotes my heart
is broken by the first quote to think of
a vet man living in America's darkest
period of hate that nevertheless
understood that ideas were liberating
and and was willing to to claim as his
own the Western legacy as was his right
and my heart is broken by the ignorance
of this girl who has been encouraged in
that thinking by the bureaucracy by the
faculty she is destroying the greatest
opportunity that a human being ever had
to lose herself in beauty and greatness
in sublimity and and she's going to
carry the hatred that she feels towards
Mozart and Haydn and woe to her because
she is losing an opportunity to come out
of herself into a realm of the most
noble expression that has ever been
granted human beings she but she's going
to carry that hatred with her into civil
society and I think Peter without
sounding apocalyptic or extreme I think
we are playing with fire we are we are
we are putting civil peace at jeopardy
because it is impossible to overstate
the degree to which students are being
taught to hate not just Western
civilization but each other I said that
was the last question I told a lie I
have one more question for you Heather I
read earlier this petition that was put
together at when you spoke at Claremont
McKenna and said was ungrammatically
false every charge was false that your
fascist it nevertheless horribly ugly
you get their students pound on the
window so that you can barely speak and
if you look at some of the comments you
skim around the web and look at this
beautifully researched beautifully
written book the diversity delusion
there are people who are calling you
horrible names
what keeps you at it I believe in
Western civilization I believe in these
books I if we stop reading them they die
if we stop reading Trollope and Milton
and Shakespeare they die it's on us we
have to keep education as the passing on
of an inheritance from one generation to
another and we have to keep these books
alive it's on us
Heather McDonald author of the diversity
delusion thank you thank you so much
Peter for uncommon knowledge and the
Hoover Institution and Fox Nation I'm
Peter Robinson
[Music]
you